=========================================
 Oak-bluff village and Stonehell prison
=========================================

Oak-bluff village is one of the largest villages near Eagle Pass that has a
mixed population, with only a few Imperial citizens. The countryside to the
north east of the road running past Oak-bluff is sparsely opulated with
farmers, hunters, wood-cutters and so on. To the north west of the village and
Oak-bluff are wild hills and sharp mountain reaches. It is widely known in the
are that these areas are not safe, and any law-abiding population has long
since been run out of the area by bandits, beast-folk, and horrid tales of the
terrors in and around Sthonehell Prison.


Travel in the region
====================
The only easy travel in the region is along the imperial road that goes through
Oak-bluff village towards Stonhell Prison.

**Mountains**. Mountain hexes along the edge of the map, next to Stonehell Prison,
and those surrounded by mountain hexes, are generally impassable for travel
through them, but those with climbing equipment and specialized knowledge of
the area may be able to find slow ways through the hexes.

Mountain hexes next to forest hexes are very difficult terrain; a full day's
travel can get through them.

**Forest**. Forest hexes are generally difficult terrain, especially those with
hills in them, and require a half day's travel to pass through.

**Road**. The road through the region is a well-built, imperial road, with
stone quarried from the mountains around Eagle Pass.


.. image:: /img/OakBluffStonehell.png
   :align: left


Notable hexes
=============
**0217**. *Stonehell Prison* -- Under Emperor Darius the Just, Stonehell was
used as a prison on the far edge of the empire, to receive all manner of
undesirables and criminal nasties, whether truly guilty or not. After Dariusâ€™
removal, an Imperial task group carried out a liberation and strategic
shut-down of the Stonehell facility. What the force found there was unpleasant
and rarely talked about. No-one has gone there in decades; nobody would dare.

 - For more information, see Michael Curtis'
   `Stonehell Dungeon series <https://rpggeek.com/rpgseries/26518/stonehell-dungeon>`_

**0218**. *Brigand caves* -- The Ghost Beggars :dnd-npc:`brigand <Bandit>`
gang, led by :dnd-npc:`Zorrel Gnast <Bandit-Captain>`, found a cave complex
high up in the foothills of the mountains a few months ago, and have moved in,
making it their headquarters. Because the caves are easy to defend, they don't
take a great deal of care to hide their tracks; anyone taking reasonable care
can track them here from their bivuac in *hex 0318*. The Ghost Beggars
themselves protect the caves, but they also have several
:dnd-creature:`mastiffs <Mastiff>` and even a sizeable
:dnd-creature:`monitor lizard <Giant-Lizard>` to protect their hideout.

 - For more information, see Michael Curtis' :rpg-geek:`Stonehell Dungeon
   Supplement One <136188>`.

**0318**. *Brigand bivuac* -- The Ghost Beggars maintain a regular camp in the
wooded hills here, because of its proximity to the long stretch of impderial
road running between Oak-bluff and the abandoned, Stonehell prison. While no
one to speak of travels to the prison these days (other than ne'er-do-wells and
beastmen), the road is used by nearly everyone in the region to travel to and
from the Oak-bluff markets: its presence means that farmers and crafters from a
wider than characteristic area can participate in the market. This makes the
brigands reasonably wealthy, and a danger that locals would like to see dealt
with.

**0419**. *Oak-bluff village* -- Small pallisaded farming village, population
about a hundred. Most of the population in the village and the farmsteads
around it are not imperials, but native barbarians. Some of them are friendly
to imperial citizens, but there is an under-current of resentment here; young
farmers with too much ale in their bellies would be prone to start something if
provoked. The village has a weekly market, and all the fundamental
crafters. The village is technically governed by the legate at Eagle Pass, but
in prartical terms, the Empire has almost no active presence here, and the
village is run in the traditional native manner, by a counsel of elders.


