===========================
 Ruined Temple of La'a Uli
===========================

  *Heard about town, in the tavern: My cousin, a woodcutter, recently came upon
  an old Eldritch temple in the wooded hills between Eagle Pass and the Cold
  River! He escaped with his life in such terror that it turned his hair white!*

|br|

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: auto

   * - Region
     - Dramatis Personae
   * - :doc:`Pine-top </regions/pinetop>`
     - *Player characters*
       |br| :doc:`Alton Highbottom </characters/alton>`
       |br| :doc:`Elodin Greycastle </characters/elodin>`
       |br| :doc:`Pius Toro </characters/pius>`
       |br| :doc:`Soriasces </characters/soriasces>`
       |br| Ginger (Soraisces' weasel familiar)
       |br|
       |br| *In Pine-top village*
       |br| Bruno Schmidt (blacksmith)
       |br| Konrad Schmidt (woodcutter, brother to Bruno)
       |br| Hilda Schmidt (backsmith's wife)
       |br|
       |br| *In the woods along the trail*
       |br| Brakka (bandit, member of Black Charles' gang)
       |br| Merket (bandit, member of Black Charles' gang)
       |br| Jek (bandit, member of Black Charles' gang)
       |br| Grimm, Greff (mastiffs)
       |br|
       |br| *At the campsight and further on the trail*
       |br| Shrub creatures (twig blights)
 

Episode One
-----------
*Scribe*. Socriasces.

Pinetop is a village roughly four leagues East of Eagle Pass in an idyllic part
of the mountainous countryside. The party left Eagle Pass in the morning and
arrived in Pinetop early afternoon, where they met with the smith Bruno Schmidt
to discuss what had occurred to his cousin Konrad Schmidt. Pius and Bruno knew
of each other by reputation and the party and Bruno quickly gained each others'
trust.

Konrad is a woodcutter by trade. Much of his work this time of year takes him
out into the forests East of Pinetop, where he spends several days camping,
chopping trees, and gathering his wares. Depending on the client, sometimes
rare trees would need to be harvested, as was the case when he went into the
woods before the incident. Bruno informed the party that Konrad had been out
longer than usual on this run, and some of the villagers had been worried about
him. Fortunately, he returned to Pinetop, however he had clearly encountered
something traumatizing, to the point that his hair turned white.

Since the party was interested in hearing more of the story from Konrad's point
of view, Bruno agreed to take them to see his cousin. Although Konrad's wife
was protective of her husband, she nevertheless trusted Bruno (and the party
was sufficiently gracious) to be allowed to see Konrad.

Konrad was in the backyard, sitting under a blanket convalescing. He was still
obviously shaken by his experience, but provided the party with more details:
Konrad had stopped to camp while on his way to a Rosewood grove, and that night
a mudslide ocurred nearby. The next morning, anticipating that he might have
been able to acquire some wood from the trees that might have been uprooted by
the slide, he went to investigate. The mudslide had apparently unearthed the
stone tower of an old, buried building. Curious, he went closer to
investigate. He climbed up to look through a hole in the tower wall, but the
next thing he remembered is running terrified through the woods, with no
recollection of what had ocurred in the intervening time. Ever since, he has
had reoccuring nightmares of cold, the smell of moss, and teeth.

The party decided to re-tread Konrad's jouney by camping out in the same
campsite that night, and to seek out the Rosewood grove the next morning. In
order to make it to the campsite by evening, they set out immediately.

As they neared the campsite, they saw two men and three dogs approaching from a
different direction. Not wanting to make assumptions, but also being cautious
of brigands in the woods, they called out to the other party. The two men then
loosed two of the dogs towards the party, in apparent aggression. Still wanting
to avoid a confrontation, the party took a defensive stance where they stood:
The two halflings (Soriasces and Alton) climbed nearby trees, and Elodin sort
of cowered behind Pius.

Using practiced hand gestures, Pius instructed the dogs to stand down once they
arrived, asserting a sort of compassionate dominance over them. Then once the
men arrived, he struck a nearby tree with his hammer, causing an impressive
earthquake. This persuaded the men and their dogs to retreat. The rest of the
party, while not contributing much to the encounter in the strictest sense, was
appropriately impressed.


Episode Two
-----------
*Scribe*. Soriasces.

After persuading the bandits to retreat to their camp, the party continued to
the site where Konrad had directed them. Upon arriving they found a natural
cave stocked with provisions, and made camp. The party hunted and foraged to
spare their rations. They found enough food to sustain them for dinner that
evening and a hearty breakfast the next morning. Alton also discovered some
poisonous berries that Pius prevented him from eating.

They prudently set a schedule of watches, but the night passed
uneventfully. The next morning - the halflings having ensured they left the
campsite in better shape than they'd found it - the party set off towards the
supposed location of the tower. On the way, Alton became suspicious of a nearby
bush and stabbed it ineffectually.

Although the rest of the party did not take Alton's threat assessment
seriously, his concern about the vegetation was eventually vindicated. Three
bramble bushes approached him threateningly from behind as they proceeded on
the path to the tower.

Alton quickly killed one of the bush creatures; the other two tried to flank
him. Soriasces then cast a spell of sufficient potency that Alton suddenly fell
asleep mid-combat. Fortunately, Elodin woke him up almost immediately by
slapping him with Mage Hand.

Pius was able to find one of the flanking bramble creatures, who seemed also to
have been put to sleep to the side of the path. When Soriaces' spell wore off,
the creature woke up, and Pius destroyed it with Sacred Flame. Although Elodin
was unable to find the second bramble creature in the brush, Alton saw it
retreating in the distance and shot it with his crossbow, killing it as well.

Elodin insisted they gather the bodies of the creatures and burn them before
moving on. The party made sure not to cause any forest fires in the process.
