=======================================
 The Bandit Investigators of Oak-bluff
=======================================

  *Heard about town, in the marketplace: Everyone knows that brigands along the
  prison road are getting worse, and they seem more organized. They have
  recently even attacked farmsteads! I do not want to say what they have done
  to the bodies of those theyâ€™ve left behind...*

|br|

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: auto

   * - Region
     - Dramatis Personae
   * - :doc:`Oak-bluff </regions/oakbluff>`
     - *Player characters*
       |br| :doc:`Artan </characters/artan>`
       |br| :doc:`Bran </characters/bran>`
       |br| :doc:`Falca </characters/falca>`
       |br| :doc:`Thikk </characters/thikk>`
       |br|
       |br| *In Oak-bluff village*
       |br| Hydroc Rowse (innkeeper)
       |br| Eseld Tonkin (elder, ex-military)
       |br| Cleder Isbell (elder, merchant)
       |br|
       |br| *Nearby farm*
       |br| Peran Pearce (farmer)
       |br| Melloney Pearce (farmer's wife)
       |br| Tryfena Pearce (farmer's daugther, initiate)
       |br| Digory Pearce (farmer's son, a bit obtuse)
       |br| Ebrel Tinney (cunning woman)
       |br|
       |br| *Brigand bivuac*
       |br| Petrok, the captured member of the Ghost Beggars gang
       |br| Two pin-cushioned members of the Ghost Beggards gang
       |br|
       |br| *Brigan caves*
       |br| Zerell, the leader of the Ghost Beggars gang
 

Episode One
-----------
*Scribe*. Falca.

Oak Bluff is the next small town ouside of Pinetop, north by about half a day.

After gathering as many rumours about the bandits as they could (after settling
their alley-way differences) the party left Eagle Pass first thing in the
morning and arrived in Oak Bluff near end of day, where they acquired lodgings
at the local inn after a stellar performance by Falca of local folk heros that
left the crowd sobbing into their drinks.

The group then began collecting further rumours of the bandit scourge
throughout the evening, engaging in banter with the locals.

There is a small imperial garrison in Oak Bluff, mainly staffed by soldiers of
a peace-keeping capacity, the local jail's only occupant currently the town
drunk.

The local cousel of elders were convinved to fund the expedition (retroactive,
upon success) assuming that the group would do nothing to bring attention or
the ire of the banditry down upon the town.

Knowing that they would be either successful or dead, the party heartily agreed
to this condition.

Ultimately, after positing a number of potential avenues

* "if locals are becoming bandits, we shoulyd just hold their grandmothers
  hostage until they surrender"

* "Full frontal assault"

* "How about we dress up as farmers, you could wear a wig and be the mom, I
  could dress as a kid, you could be the dad, and you could hide in the hay in
  the wagon because you're a dwarf"

it was decided that the group would approach a local farmer and see if they
could covertly be of assistance when the farmer made their way to market in 4
days time.

Wanting to avoid the Imperial roads to lessen the likelyhood of running into
bandits before they were ready, Thikk "expertly" (along with Bran's assistance)
guided the group through the wilderness with only a few mis-steps.

After eventually making it to one of the most out-of-the-way farms, there was
discussion as to how to best blend in just in case the bandits were casing the
place:

* "I could dress up as a kid and just be one of the farm kids"

* "One of the daughters is studying to be a priest, so Bran could pose as
  tutor"

* "Why don't we just hide in the barn?"

Consensus could not be established.

Episode Two
-----------
*Scribe*. Falca

After careful consideration, it was decided that the group should abscond with
one of the Pierce family children in order to scout out a known, and oft-used
ambush point.

Though a cart made the travel slower, the group was able to disguse themselves
as a farming family, with Thikk and Artan hidden in the trunk, Bran posing as a
farmer, and Falca and Digery Pierce posing as his children.

Approaching the bend and proported ambush point, Bran spotted a weak line of
smoke streaming from the hilltop.  Passing by the ambush point with no trouble,
the group doubled back and daringly rolled out of the cart, leaving PIERCE to
return home.

A deer trail was found, which clearly led upwards into the hill towards the
smoke.

Near the mouth of the trail, blinds and shelters were spotted, and strange
carvings were found in the tree.  Falca was able to decipher them, using the
oft-used D&D skill of Thieves' Cant.  These writings seemed to be inventories
of past robberies.

The party then carefully made their way up the hill until voices were heard.
Falca moved forward stealthfully to investigate.  A rogue branch snapped and
the conversation quickly ceased, but just as quickly picked up again.

Moving closer to the conversation, Falca observed three bandits (their yellow
and black scarves clearly visible), and masterfully (almost too much so)
mimicked a triple cry of a local bird and readying her bow.

Deciding that this was the signal to advance, Thickk began laughing
histerically, and charged up the hill.  In the initiall confusion, Falca
released an arrow, catching a bandit just beneath the eye (SNEAK ATTACK!).  The
other two jumped over the table, flipping it over on its side and hid behind
it, drawing weapons.

Thikk advanced on their position and too a mighty swing at the nearest bandit,
who parried the blow with his shortsword.  Artan artfully lobbed a ball of acid
at the two bandits, who were both scalded in the ordeal.  Falca released
another arrow, catching the second bandit in the ear (SNEAK ATTACK!) dropping
him as well.

Bran, unleashing holy power, commanded the final bandit to DROP IT, but
something was lost in holy to bandit translation, and the bandit dropped to the
ground.  Moments before Thikk plunges his axe into the skull of the final
bandit, Artan rushes forward yelling "REMEMBER, WE WANT ONE ALIVE!" at which
point the bandit quickly surrenders.

Under careful and pointed (there was an arrow pointed at his head)
interrogation, the bandit provided the following pieces of information:

* the band of bandits claim to be the "Ghost Beggars"
  
* this group was a scouting party and expected back the next day
  
* The name of the head bandit: Zorell
  
* the head bandit is not an idiot and probably won't just send another scouting
  party in search of the last one
  
* we would make good bandits
